First pass plain language proofreading for intro docs (#147)
canonical/ubuntu-server-documentation: explanation/intro-to/virtualisation.md

(introduction-to-virtualization)=

> # Introduction to virtualization

Reviewer: Good catch! Luckily no pages refer to that specific anchor

> Virtualization is a technology that allows you to create safe, isolated environments on your server. Developers can use virtualization to create self-contained sandboxes for development and testing that won't negatively affect the host machine. System administrators can use virtualization to effectively scale network resources to meet changing demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Virtualization is a technology that allows you to create safe, isolated environments on your server. Developers can use virtualization to create self-contained sandboxes for development and testing that cannot negatively affect the host machine. System administrators can use virtualization to scale network resources to meet changing demand, giving greater control and flexibility in managing infrastructure.
```

Reviewer: Again, we want to be careful with wording choices to make sure they don't change the meaning of what's being communicated. Changing "cannot" to "won't" implies that a sandbox could-but-doesn't affect the host machine, but they are designed so that they quite literally cannot. I'd also like to keep the point about control and flexibility - it's the whole reason why virtualization is so useful to sysadmins and should be mentioned :)

> The **virtualization stack** uses layers of abstraction to help users work with virtualization more easily. Each layer of abstraction hides the complexity of layers below it, allowing the user to work with a more high-level view.

Reviewer: I'd also suggest reverting this change, because it's not quite accurate. Let me know which part of the text you found unclear, and we can workshop on it :)

Author: I think I wasn't sure what "technology" meant in this context, and would prefer if it was switched with something more specific, but I'm not sure what. I don't have much technical context for virtualization so I'm not sure if there is a word that would make more sense.

## Virtual machines

> Virtual machines (VMs) are essentially computers-within-computers. A VM provides strong isolation and reduces the need for additional hardware when running different operating system environments. A VM includes its own operating system and simulated resources, making it completely independent of the host machine and other VMs. To find out more, see this overview of {ref}`the different VM tools and technologies <vm-tools-in-the-ubuntu-space>` available in the Ubuntu space.

Reviewer: I'm not sure that this reorganisation adds clarity - it's the fact that the VM includes its own OS that provides the strong isolation, which is why the original text was that way around (i.e. cause -> then effect).

Author: Got it! Thank you for the reasoning it's very helpful.

Author: Reverted this with some minor changes to remove the multiple parenthetical phrases.

## Containers

Containers are a lightweight virtualization technology. Unlike a VM, they share the operating system of the host machine so they are fast to provision when demand for resources is high. 

> Containers are also useful for running and packaging applications because they contain all of the application's dependencies and libraries. Containers ensure consistency across different environments. 

Reviewer: Similar to the above, I'd suggest reverting this because the meanings here have been changed. For example, saying they are "fast to provision" (new) may be inaccurate - but they are *faster* than VMs (original). They may also not be lightweight, but they are more lightweight than VMs (because they use the host OS). Usually for any particular purpose you might want either a VM or a container, and it's the comparison between the two which is the key here.

Author: Reverted with some minor edits to remove parenthetical phrases.

Containers come in two main types: **system** containers, and **application** containers.

### System containers

> System containers simulate a full machine like a VM, but use the operating system of the host machine. They are often used for separating user spaces.

Reviewer: Could we revert this change as well please?

Author: reverted change

### Application containers

> Application containers package the components required for a specific application to run, including all dependencies and libraries. This allows the application to be run easily in different environments. Application containers are particularly useful for running microservices.

Reviewer: As above :) this paragraph now has a different meaning and so these changes should be reverted.

Author: reverted!
